From fairest creatures we desire increase,
That thereby beauty's rose might never die,
But as the riper should by time decease,
His tender heir might bear his memory.
But thou contracted to thine own bright eyes,
Feed'st thy light's flame with self-substantial fuel,
Making a famine where abundance lies,
Thy self thy foe, to thy sweet self too cruel.
Now is the winter of our discontent
Made glorious summer by this sun of York.
Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears;
I come to bury Caesar, not to praise him.
The evil that men do lives after them;
The good is oft interred with their bones.
If music be the food of love, play on,
Give me excess of it; that surfeiting,
The appetite may sicken, and so die.
All the world's a stage,
And all the men and women merely players;
They have their exits and their entrances.
To be, or not to be: that is the question:
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
And by opposing end them.
Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow,
Creeps in this petty pace from day to day,
To the last syllable of recorded time.
Out, out, brief candle!
Life's but a walking shadow, a poor player,
That struts and frets his hour upon the stage.
O Romeo, Romeo! wherefore art thou Romeo?
Deny thy father and refuse thy name;
Or, if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love,
And I'll no longer be a Capulet.
The quality of mercy is not strained,
It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven
Upon the place beneath. It is twice blest:
It blesseth him that gives and him that takes.
Some are born great, some achieve greatness,
And some have greatness thrust upon them.
Cowards die many times before their deaths;
The valiant never taste of death but once.
What's in a name? that which we call a rose
By any other word would smell as sweet.
The lady doth protest too much, methinks.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown.
The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars,
But in ourselves, that we are underlings.
There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so.
Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind,
And therefore is winged Cupid painted blind.
Full fathom five thy father lies;
Of his bones are coral made.
Those are pearls that were his eyes.
Nothing of him that doth fade,
But doth suffer a sea-change
Into something rich and strange.
We are such stuff as dreams are made on,
And our little life is rounded with a sleep.
